This week on the podcast, I have yet
another extra special guest, Miller
Value Funds, Bill Miller IV. He is the
son of Bill Miller III. Fascinating uh
investor, portfolio manager, and World
Series of Poker uh player. They have a
very unique approach to value. It's not
your traditional just buy them cheap. I
thought this conversation was
fascinating and I think you will also
with no further ado my conversation with
Miller Value Funds, Bill Miller.
Bill Miller, I feel like I have to add
the fourth. Welcome to Bloomberg.
>> Thanks for having me. It's great to be
here. So, so I want to talk about uh
your investment philosophy, what you're
doing at Miller Value today, but let's
roll back a little bit beforehand. You
get a degree in economics from TUS and
then an MBA from Dartmouth TU School of
Business. Was investing the original
career plan?
>> No, it wasn't the original career plan.
Um, you know, when I was growing up,
went to a small uh private boy school in
Baltimore, Maryland. never really knew
what I wanted to be when I grew up, but
uh when I pointed out to my parents,
they said, "Well, just consider school
as your job." And uh the harder you
study, the more options you'll have down
the line, and it'll help you figure it
out. So,
>> that sounds like pretty good advice.
>> I I followed it. Um did well
academically in school. Uh so, when I
went to TUS, I think the primary concern
was somewhere where I could actually
play baseball.
>> So, growing up as a huge Orioles fan,
that was something that my dad and I
often did together. He was my coach in
little league. Something I'm doing now
today for my son. Um, sports teach you a
lot about being on a team, about uh how
to operate, how to internalize what you
you can and control what you can and not
focus on the rest. So, learned a lot
from that. Um,
>> did you play baseball in college?
>> Yeah, but I wasn't very good. So, learn
learned that pretty quickly. Um, I
played
>> the difference between the guys who are
good and really good is so tiny. Just
like a little wood on the bat, once or
twice more a week and you're in a
different tier.
>> Exactly. Right. Um
>> it's fascinating.
>> Yeah. And you know, I I probably deluded
myself for a while about how good I
could be, but I also probably didn't
focus on the right things. And knowing
what I know now about how to get better
and improve at things, I could have been
much more systematic about it than I
was.
>> Huh.
>> So, so you start your career at
McKenzie. Why why consulting? What What
led to that?
>> Yeah. Well, so I interned for my dad's
group
>> in college, loved it, learned a lot. Um,
but then, you know, onampus recruiting
came along and Mackenzie was one of the
names and I just applied to it, did a
little work on it and, uh, made it
through that interview process was
pretty rigorous.
>> Uhhuh.
>> And I got an offer from McKenzie and I
said, "Hey, Dad, I love being with your
group. Investing is a lot of fun. You
know, what would you do if you were me?"
And he said, 'Well, you can always tell
McKenzie, you can always come back and
work for me, but if you tell Mackenzie
no, you'll never have a chance to work
there again. Right?
>> So, it was this concept of optionality
again. And also, there was he knew and I
didn't know at the time, but they place
an immense amount of uh focus on
professional development. Um, and so
that was a really valuable place to
spend the first three years of my
career. So, I was working on a huge
variety of consulting projects. main
actually the job I had there now I don't
I don't know if it exists because of AI.
So what I was doing was remotely
supporting teams on research efforts
>> and deep dives on stuff which now you
just ask chat GBT about and he probably
does a better job summarizing everything
I could possibly do and you know
>> assuming it's accurate which is always a
little bit of an if
>> right that is a big if for sure yeah
focusing on primary sources is a uh
still a critical skill that I think a
lot of people underemphasize. What did
you take from your years consulting that
showed up uh and as helpful as an
investor?
>> You know, one of the things this will
might surprise you less so about the
data driven nature because my dad's a
data driven thinker and thinking
quantitatively has always been in my uh
wheelhouse. But the thing that I learned
at McKenzie more than anywhere else
would be the focus on client service
>> and how to interact with people, how to
uh do the subtle things that show you
know somebody else as the client. Um in
finance, you know, when you're managing
money, it's very hard to differentiate
uh yourself and that you know Ken French
who was a professor of mine uh at
>> famous FMA French factor model at
Dartmouth. Sure.
>> You got it. Exactly. One of the things
he imparted on us was how how long does
it take to know if a money manager is
actually any good? And the answer is I'm
from a statistically significant basis
longer than any money manager's career.
>> Right?
>> I was gonna say 10 years, 20 years.
>> It's it's 20 plus for to see if it's
statistically significant. Right? So you
have to be doing other things. It's like
we were talking about before we came in
here. Content's a big focus, right?
That's a way to differentiate yourself.
Uh the way you communicate with clients,
getting back to them quickly. All of
these things are really important. And I
learned those at Mackenzie and I'm not
sure I would have learned those to the
same extent if I had just directly
joined my dad's firm. So that might be a
surprising answer but it is a
>> no it's really really interesting. So
McKenzie was uh a solid uh place to get
grounded. What led to the pivot to
investing late 0708?
>> Yeah. So in McKenzie we were effectively
handing over analyses to clients and
then leaving and moving on to the next
analysis. And it occurred to me that if
you actually wanted to you know build
any equity in your analysis and what you
were doing you had to actually take a
real stake in something. And so that
made me think, okay, you know, this is
it'd be a great time to pivot from what
I was doing at Mackenzie to my dad's
side of things where that's exactly what
you're doing all day every day. Excuse
me. And then I also during college I
took a liking to poker
>> and so played a lot of no limit hold and
back then poker stars was kind of an
illegal gray area. And so I I played a
lot online and I saw a lot of
similarities between what my dad did
poker analytical uh edge in terms of
thinking quantitatively at McKenzie and
it all kind of came around to moving in
that direction. So, speaking of your
your father, how did growing up in the
Bill Miller household influence how you
look at at risk and reward, at
investing, at how big of an influence
was he on your initial philosophy?
>> I think he's most of it.
>> Um, it's hard for me to specifically say
A, B, and C because it was as much
learning from watching him
>> and how he operated. So, number one, he
was always always had a stack of
research and was always going through
content, always looking for new
perspectives. He's a relentless truth
seeker. And I think that's ultimately
what we're doing as investors is trying
to separate where the truth is from
where the perception is around what's
going to happen. And the bigger the gap,
the more you want to place a bet.
>> That variant perception is really
important, is it? Exactly. Especially
when that gap gets bigger and bigger.
>> Yeah. And especially if there's a uh,
you know, a margin of safety there to to
protect you on the downside.
So relentless truth seeeking. And the
other thing is, you know, there were no
shortcuts for him. There's no there's no
substitute for actually putting in the
time to going through that content all
the time and being in front of your your
machine all day and and just time is the
ultimate uh resource and constraint for
everyone. Mhm.
>> And so thinking in blocks of time and
thinking how to maximize your
productivity per unit of time I think is
something that uh I took away from him.
>> Really interesting. So going back to the
family business that's a pretty loaded
concept for a lot of people. Um what was
it like first going back to work with
your father and then becoming the
controlling o owner of Miller Value
Partners?
Um, it was fantastic because we were a
small group at LEG uh for a good period
of time probably from 2013 or 2014 until
we split off and went independent in I
think it was 2019 or so. So, got to work
with my dad very closely a lot. Um, you
know, but at the same time, one of the
things I love about it is the market
doesn't really care what he did or
didn't do. Mhm.
>> And ultimately, now that I'm in charge
of the portfolios, it'll hinge upon my
decision-m more so than what he did. And
so, it's on me to now take everything
I've learned and run with it and do what
we can do.
>> Was your father a poker player? How did
you find your way into that?
>> No, he wasn't a poker player. It was
when uh Chris Money Maker won
>> the World Series. I don't know if you
remember. Sure.
>> I think it was maybe 02 or 03.
>> Big funny glasses and uh
>> he was an accountant actually. And so,
you know, he stressed a lot of the
quantitative decision- making. And um
the other thing I actually looked at
coming out of uh uh Tuck was baseball
operations stuff because Moneyball was a
you know, the whole analytical side was
just coming around then.
>> And um you know, I know you like to talk
about mistakes, but I I think of
specifically that recruiting process, my
attitude towards it, and just some
mistakes I made there. So, um,
>> well, we seem to learn more from our
failures than we do from our successes
because we don't know if our successes
were the result of good fortune or
skill. If it takes 20 years to figure
out, which it is, you're going to
obviously learn more from the errors.
Hey, we know this was a bad choice.
>> That's right.
>> Or or was it a good choice with a bad
outcome?
>> Well, I think in this case, it was a,
you know, the outcome was good because
it was ultimately where I was probably
looking to wind up. But at that time I
was thinking I want to do baseball
baseball. You know I mentioned earlier I
wasn't good enough to play. Um I wanted
to sort of use my analytical talents to
talents my analytical background and
training to go into the analytical side.
And as I went through the recruiting
process it became very clear that I was
jumping through hoops waiting for
callbacks. And it was a very intense
process. And I realized that I was
probably going to be charting pitches in
Topeka at the end of it, which to me
didn't seem all that exciting, but in
retrospect, if you want to be in
baseball operations, you should do
anything you possibly can to get your
foot in the door to these competitive
businesses.
>> Let me point out, a little over a decade
ago, a kid became an intern in the NFL
and he just won the Super Bowl as head
coach. So, if you really love it that
much and you're that committed, I I'm
with you. I can't count pitches in
Topeka. I just couldn't imagine that,
right? I mean,
>> yeah,
>> especially because you have how many
other people were interns and they
didn't head coach the Super Bowl winner.
>> But it's funny because now I see that on
on the other side, right? So, I get
LinkedIn's and messages all the time,
hey, I'm I'm a really good software
analyst. I want to come and work for you
and be a software analyst. And I'm like,
we don't need a software analyst right
now. We need somebody that can go get me
a sandwich at lunchtime, you know? But
like so I but I understand the
perspective too. It's just that I think
if you want to become a member of a
team, you have to understand what the
team needs and where you can genuinely
help. And it may not always necessarily
align with what you want to do. And I
think that's important to keep in mind.
>> Huh. Really, really very interesting.
So, as long as we're talking about all
these career choices, if you were
starting out today, would you follow
this a similar path to what you did
previously or would you go a different
route?
>> Um, I really like what I'm doing now and
I want to do it indefinitely. So, it's
hard for me to go back and say I would
do something differently because I'm
where I want to be and uh for the long
term. I do think one of the lesser
considered uh paths that a lot of
undergrads
don't think about would be actually
going into something entrepreneurial
>> and and I don't mean like starting a
startup that you're trying to scale from
zero to gajillion dollars over the next
year, right? But that's what people tend
to think of because that's where all the
returns look like they are. In reality,
I think potentially scaling a small
services business, you know, whether
that's power washing, home cleaning,
just things that where you can get your
arm around the fundamental service and
scale that and make it bigger is
potentially a more a safer risk adjusted
way to a big outcome than people
consider.
>> Just because you're learning a business
from the ground up and customer
relations and all those other things.
>> Yeah. Well, you know, even in our
business, it takes time to build a track
record. It takes time to build the
assets. And so anything you do where
you're going to have a good outcome in
the in the long run just takes
repetitive effort and and the right
focus. And so sometimes the learning
around something that you can get your
arms around can be easier than the
learning around software development or
you know scaling a big fund or things
like that. So
>> So you joined Leg Mason in ' 08 pretty
much right in the middle of the
financial crisis. H how did that
experience shape your perspective on
investing and in particular on value?
>> Um wow start with a hard-hitting
question here. So that was a it as you
point out I joined right at the top. I
think when I joined capital management
there were roughly 150 people working
there and then by the time um you know
capital management merged with
ClearBridge.
>> Mhm.
>> There were a substantially fewer number
of people working there just because um
assets flew out the door, performance
struggled and you know that could be a
pretty ugly compounding effect on an
asset manager. So
>> for sure.
>> Um,
>> by the way, that story was pretty much
ubiquitous throughout finance.
>> Yeah. And so I think that taught me, you
know, you to run one of these
businesses, you obviously want to have
some extra gas in the tank, you know, at
all times. You want to you don't want to
run it too thin from a operating capital
perspective, uh, if you want to build it
for the long term. Um, and so it's a
good idea to keep those fixed costs
lower than you might even anticipate.
>> So, so let's talk about building on
that. You you come out of the financial
crisis. You get your CFA soon after
2011, something like that.
>> That sounds right.
>> And then uh become a a chartered market
technician in 2018.
Unusual combination. Tell us uh why you
went that route.
>> Yeah. So, the analogy I make is if the
CFA teaches you to play your cards on
the poker table, the CMT teaches you to
play the other players at the poker
table.
>> Um, and in that one of the interesting
things about the CMT is number one, it
takes a lot less time than the CFA.
>> Uhhuh.
>> But number two, I use that in the some
of the teachings from that more often
now than I use the CFA.
>> It's funny you you you the way you
described it. I always thought the
difference was um financial analysts
tell you what to buy, technicians tell
you when to buy.
>> Well, I think that's accurate as well.
>> Mhm.
>> Yeah. And so, one of the things that
it's very easy to do as a value investor
is see multiples coming down and a stock
going down, you go, "Wow, this is way
too cheap." The reality is that it's
could just keep going down because it's
going down and people are selling it.
And you have to be able to read that on
the chart and when the volumes change
and when the uh investor behavior
changes. So it teaches you to look at
investor behavior. It teaches you how to
figure out what other investors are
thinking based upon price trends and
action and volume and um that's been a
really valuable skill set and complement
to the CFA.
>> So walk us through your process from
idea generation to execution and
position sizing. What sort of steps do
you have to work your way through?
>> Well, I think a lot of it starts with
the appreciation that most assets are
efficiently priced, right? So, we have a
portfolio of things that we believe are
undervalued.
Um, and so all day, every day, we're
constantly running through screens.
We're reading research. We're looking at
price movements. We're looking at
insider action a lot of the time, uh,
when insiders are buying or selling to
to potentially point us point something
out to us. Um, but then we have to then
once we identify something that looks
interesting, it has to then be better
than what what else we have in the
portfolio. So we have a a group of
things that we own and like, but at the
same time, we're constantly comparing
new ideas to see if it can be a fit to
come into the portfolio. And so how we
make changes is going to be obviously
directly relevant to that thesis. In
some cases, we'll have a name that the
investment thesis completely changed
with the latest earnings report or or
something went out the window and then
we'll have an ability to either add
something new or or bump something up.
But it it's always about constantly
looking for new ideas that could be
undervalued and then trying to figure
out the right way to weight them because
as unconstrained investors all of our
torque is in our position sizing in the
weights. So um you know we we made a lot
of mistakes and oftentimes the answer to
those mistakes is sitting right in our
portfolio. You know it almost always is
we should own more of that and less of
that and so I spend a lot of time just
going through the portfolio and figuring
out where the relative weights should
be. Um, but I would say at a high level,
probabilistic
fundamental value.
>> Probabilistic fundamental value. All
right. I like that phrase. Uh, when
you're looking at fundamental values,
how do you distinguish between something
that's only temporarily out of favor,
temporarily hated to, oh, this business
model is structurally broken? H how do
you avoid the classic value traps?
>> Well, we don't always, unfortunately.
um
you know and just because something is
undervalued doesn't mean that other
people are going to agree that it's
undervalued. So I think that's an
important um thing to keep in mind too
and it's important to use the markets to
help you figure out how to change your
position sizes because sometimes you
start legging into something and it just
keeps going down. You should probably
heed the markets uh feedback a lot of
the time relative to your own um
positions and their sizes. So, one of
the key reports that my dad looked at
every day, I still look at every day, is
our daily performance report. And
basically, it just says the entire
portfolio ranked by weight and then how
it's done over the past day, how each
name has done over the past day, week,
month, quarter, six months, year.
>> What about the reverse? When something's
working out, do you pyramid and add to
the position as it runs?
>> It depends. So, I mean, we just I I know
you don't like to talk about short-term
stuff and market related things, but we
just eliminated our Google position a
few days ago,
>> right? So, we we
>> I mean, that had a great 2025.
>> It did. And we we actually got the I
think the investment thesis right.
Hopefully, we got the exit right. Um
but, you know, the thesis there was,
okay, here's Google. This is this should
be a huge AI winner.
>> Everyone was concerned about their
search business at the time and AI
replacing search. And you know our
position was hold on this trades at a
massive discount to the Mag7. It trades
at a discount to the market on an
earnings and cash flow basis. Um yet it
has all the distribution mechanisms for
AI. You know they're in seven out of 10
phones globally. Uh
>> and all the technology capability to
implement AI. I mean they're a giant
tech brain trust, right?
>> Exactly. And they had a ton of funding
to build it with. So, um, and you know,
Whimo and all these other, you know,
YouTube, all these other insane
businesses, and it was trading at a
discount to the market. It just didn't
make any sense. So, we bought that.
That's probably fairly valued today, I
think. You know, and obviously one of
the, you know, classic mistakes is
selling things too early. Could it
continue to compound? Yes. But if you
look at why the whole Mag 7 hyperscalers
have done so well over the past two to
three years, the answer has been well
they're number one growing faster than
everything else and number two they've
got these huge incremental free cash
flow margins. But if you look at what's
been going on recently, they don't
really have big incremental free cash
flow margins anymore because they're
dumping so much money into the AI uh
space that there really is no free cash
flow and now you're betting on it
materializing down the line. So where we
take the other side on the AI situation
is you if you actually look at the
dollars required to be found in revenues
5 years out they're so substantial the
number one they're bigger than the
entire software as a service uh business
right now globally around the world.
Okay. And number one. Number two, the
total revenues that are required to
justify all the investment that's gone
in is bigger than the combined uh
revenue of Mag 7 today. And those
companies have been scaling for 30 to 40
50 years in some cases.
>> And so you got to find that in five
years to make all this investment worth
it. And and if you think about the
structural uh the way it works, it's all
this capex investment upfront and then
it's very little marginal cost, right?
So you you potentially have a raise to
the bottom on on pricing on the top line
in a few years as well. So that gives us
a little bit of pause. Whether or not
it's right, who knows?
>> Huh. So, so what I'm hearing is that
there's a probabilistic quantitative
discipline. You're looking at value.
You're looking at growth rate. You're
looking at risk combined with a
qualitative judgment about management
and sounds like specific industry and uh
whether these moonshots are going to pay
off or not. How do you balance between
the squishy qualitative side and the
more uh quantitative uh mathematical
side?
>> Well, I think there always has to be a
quantitative value perspective and
anything we're buying and thinking
about. Uh often from a total addressable
market perspective uh versus versus the
current valuation.
Um one of the big themes for us also is
alignment. So we want to see managers,
you know, actually using their cap. So,
it's capital allocation and alignment.
So, are they using their capital in ways
that align with our view of the stock?
You know, are they buying back a lot of
shares if it's mispriced? Hopefully,
yes. Are they aligned with you as a
manager of the company? You know,
principal agent conflict is one of the
biggest sources of value destruction
>> you can possibly imagine. And so, that's
important to us.
>> Um, as managers, we are the biggest
investors in our own funds as well. So,
we really interesting.
>> Yeah. Um but it's you know it's a first
principles-based approach. So uh one of
the things we pay special attention to I
think more so than most and can be
opportunistic about moving on it is
insider activity. So when you see a big
insider buy, if you can then reverse
engineer a quantitative value
perspective into that insider buy, that
makes a lot of sense. That can be a
really uh compelling
>> I just saw a big Wall Street Journal
piece on do insider buyers indicate
future performance and I saved it. I
haven't read it yet. Um what what's your
take? I mean the assumption is insiders
there's a million reasons to sell a
stock if you need liquidity. There's
only one reason to buy a stock.
You you stay with that conclusion.
Insider buying is indicative of positive
things to come.
>> I think it's a potentially high signal
source of information. So in the
aggregate, does it necessarily guarantee
it? No. But if you can contextualize it
and say, okay, this CEO is really smart.
He's done this sort of thing in the
past. He has a plan for this company.
Here's what it's looking like. and you
just put a huge amount of personal
capital in
that can be a really good
>> it's not binary. There are other factors
that have to be it's a little more
nuanced than the way we typically think
of it.
>> Context matters always
>> really interesting. So let's talk about
your investment philosophy separate from
your your dad's starting with how do you
define value in a world where a lot of
the traditional metrics like price to
earnings or price to book seem to have
been um downgraded somewhat. Uh perhaps
they don't fully capture modern
intellectual property based business
models. How do you how do you think
about those? Yeah, I think you have to
have a flexible definition of value. Um,
and that if it's just based on
accounting figures, you're probably not
going to do very well over the long run
because if you look at some of the best
performing assets, stocks of all time,
they never look cheap
>> just because they have such a right tail
and they compound with very, you know,
they're investing all their earnings and
they're constantly seeking to grow that
edge. And solely
focusing on accounting factors is not a
great way to capture long-term value or
or outperformers. Although it can be,
you know, we have a strategy where
whereby my business partner Dan Lysk has
this collection of 10 or 12 names that
look insanely cheap on these metrics. So
you can do there's a lot of different
ways to skin the cat, right?
>> So what what are the different thought
processes around defining value? So
cheap but not broken is obviously uh
what your partner is focusing on. Um,
how do you contextualize
uh things like Amazon or Nvidia or
Google which have looked expensive for
10 years and have just shot the lights
out?
>> Yeah. Well, in the case of Amazon, they
started with a very small idea around
just selling books online and it was,
you know, it ended up being this retail
juggernaut just because if you look at
now the distribution logistics networks
that they've used to fulfill their
orders, it's just a it's a network that
can't be touched, right? It's the
everything store. Um, and it depends on
the actual scenario. So, you know, one
of the things that I've been vocal about
now for probably 10 years is uh our def
our view that Bitcoin is still a
massively undervalued technology.
>> Mh.
>> Um,
and so that would be one where you'd
probably say, well, why? It has no cash
flows. It uh it, you know, speculative.
It's based upon other people's beliefs.
And I'd say that's exactly right. It is
based upon other people's beliefs, but
other people don't haven't yet come
around to the view that it is a
functionally superior technology to
gold. It's a form of capital governance.
Um, I think it requires a lot of
different lenses, right? When we say we
have a flexible definition of value, you
have to approach things from a variety
of different perspectives. In this case,
one of the reasons I think Bitcoin is so
interesting and compelling 17 years in,
you know, it's gone from this weird
technology on the internet that only
criminals used um to now it's collateral
for loans in our modern day financial
system, right? And so, what explains
that? Well, the markets explain it to an
extent in that people are increasingly
coming around to view it as an
interesting place to put money and an
interesting capital governance system.
Um, it's totally separate from the fiat
systems that everyone has known for
their entire lifetimes and multiple
centuries before us. Um, it wasn't
possible prior to 2009 or 2010 when the
white paper came out. And so now you've
got this new emerging system of capital
governance that uh I think it's one of
the most dynamic areas of finance in
general as a matter of fact. So, it's an
area I'm very optimistic about over the
long term. It'll bounce around. It'll be
volatile, but um I think it's headed to
uh much bigger places.
>> So, so we're recording this the day
after it briefly broke 60,000.
Um are you a buyer of Bitcoin at these
prices?
>> Yes. So, that's a big part of my
personal financial situation in
>> in one of our in MVPA it's roughly or
digital assets collectively are about
10% uh of that fund. So we'll talk more
about um state of markets in a little
bit. Let let's stay with the concept of
philosophically this is an interesting
technology. I I've described this as
stop thinking as a unique asset class. I
think of it as hey it's somewhere
between Facebook and Google between Meta
and Alphabet as a technology company. um
which gives it a little more
perspective. But at the same time, it
came out around the same time as an
iPhone. And I would never give up my
iPhone. I don't know how I would my my
train tickets, my plane tickets, my
communication, my portfolio, everything
I do, I do on this. If Bitcoin were to
disappear tomorrow, it wouldn't affect
my life in the least.
Why is it that 17 years in, we're still
waiting for this to gain broad
usefulness, I'm still waiting for smart
tickets that uh cut out uh StubHub and
those guys and all sorts of techn
technological uses that I heard about 5
10 years ago but still haven't happened.
H how what's the response to the
skeptics? Uh well so if you look at the
introduction of running water in
households it took a hundred years
>> for it to go from possibility to
ubiquitous.
>> Okay and that was a clearly better
technology than using an outhouse or
boiling water to put it on youite or
whatever. So um this this is an entirely
new idea and again from my perspective
it's a capital denominator. It's not a
numerator. It's a capital denominator.
So, it's Bitcoin is a denominator for
capital. And the reason I think it's so
superior to what we've known before is
that uh money the way it works right
now, it's ultimately backed by this the
threat of state ordered violence,
>> standing standing army and uh a set of
laws. Right.
>> That's right. You know, you don't pay
your taxes, we'll throw you in a box and
lock the key away. Throw the key away.
Um but this I and if you think about
actually around the world the countries
you want to visit most of them are going
to have stability of process and rule of
law right and and the places where
that's not the case there's a much
there's a much less distinct uh much
less of distinction between who controls
the ledger and who controls the guns. So
the farther apart those two things are
the better. So in this case, we now have
a distinct ledger entirely apart from
any state and its units can't be
controlled by anyone, right? And that
they're controlled by actual energy. So
you need to have energy to crank out a
new Bitcoin because it that's what the
whole mining process is about, right?
You verify a transaction takes a lot of
energy to do that and in exchange for
expending that energy, you get more
Bitcoin. That's the minor reward.
>> Right.
>> Right. So this is a capital denominator
whereby energy input is actually
required to create new units. What
happens now? What happens now is
somebody, you know, a bunch of Congress
people signs something, Fed goes and
prints money to keep roughly uh rates
roughly in line, prices roughly stable,
employment roughly full. Um and so it's
it's
there's uh there's still some issues
with that from a process perspective,
right? So they're trying to control the
money supply to come engineer outcomes
as opposed to having a fair set of value
that we all agree upon, right? This is a
valuable thing because it takes energy
to produce and having that be the
arbiter of value. And so if you look at
the political process today, it's not a
it's it's a process issue more than
anything else. And that often times the
least accountable party ends up winning
in office because of all the promises
they make. And what happens then? Well,
more units get printed, right? And they
just get printed and printed over time.
And that's what ultimately causes
inflation. And it's, you know, it's it's
not a red issue or blue issue. Most of
the time, Republicans are cutting taxes
in a way that probably doesn't make
sense from a systemic perspective. Um,
at the other side of the the equation,
often times the the blue side of the
aisle increases entitlements, right,
without an offset. And so both of those
are bad things for the for the overall
medium through which we transact over
time. And so now you've got a system
that offers a promise of effectively
cutting that whole the clown show as I
call it sometimes out entirely.
>> So you look like you're not believing
it.
>> Um well, you know, I don't care about
deficits. Since past 50 years, I've been
hearing about the problem with printing
money and everything that we were warned
against didn't happen. The dollar hasn't
devalued. We haven't had hyperinflation.
We haven't crowded out private capital.
And you could still lend money to Uncle
Sam at historically low rates. Um if if
you want three and a half, four% as a
yield. So all the warnings about
printing money and deficits have been,
you know, the boy who crawled cry cried
wolf for half a century. Um,
so, so there's that and then there's,
okay, so here's an idea that we're g,
what are we limited to? 24 million
>> 21
>> 21 million coins and that um,
scarcity creates value. I I understand
it's virtual. I understand um the
advantages of having things be purely
digital from conception forward. Um, I
have a hard time getting past uh the
criminality and the pig butchering and
the blackmail. That that's a little
problematic. And it's sort of like
democracy. All the other, you know, it's
the worst system except all the others.
Well, a central bank and a government
that make sure we're doing
something within reason is better than
just opening it up to the Wild West,
which is what this seems to have been
for a long time. Um, the US did a was
pretty aggressive in embracing it,
especially this administration. Um, and
it seems to have speculatively run up in
anticipation from that. And you know,
once it was all in the price, you know,
we got cut in half. It's when you're
talking about stability. Yeah. The US
dollar was down 9% in 2025,
not cut in half. This is a giant whack
in, you know, less than six months. So,
I I have a hard time just wrapping my
head around, oh, the source of stability
is something with no fundamental value,
but swinging wildly up and down. So I'm
I'm not as negative about it as a lot of
people are. I was really negative about
the NFTTS and my con which wait you want
to take something with literally no
value and totally reproducible and like
I understood the idea of hey you're
going to buy a $10,000 Birkin bag and
here's a unique identifier on the
blockchain. All right, that made some uh
sense, but not $68 million. This is sort
of crazy prices these traded at. So,
there seems to be a lot of speculative
excess that get in the way of the the
technological story underneath.
>> Yeah. And I I think you bring up a good
point with regard to the United States
and the deficits not making a a big
impact. And that's because we are the
best house in a bad neighborhood from a
fiat perspective. I mean we have the the
reason America is the most uh desired
place to be from an immigration
perspective. I think we have you know
four time multiples the number of
immigrants uh as the next four closest
countries combined. Again that comes
down to stability of process rule of law
and property rights right
>> and so if there's now a form of currency
that wasn't possible 20 years ago call
it that has more stability of process
and more certainty around property
rights over the long term. I think it's
an education uh issue as much as
anything else. Um
>> interesting
>> and pe people may not come around to
that view, but I from my perspective the
quantitative inevitability of the
technology is pretty compelling when you
look at just the Bitcoin versus gold,
right? Gold's done amazing in the past
year. I get it. It's a de part of the
debasement trade. Bitcoin hasn't. But
when you think about, you know, as if
gold is the predominant check and
balance on fiat, fiat's a lack of
accountability, and then you look at the
functional um attributes of Bitcoin,
it's so far superior to gold. You get a
trades
>> limiting the economy to how much yellow
metal we scrape out of the ground each
year. Never made any sense, right? Um
but then it's a little bit of a leap to
all right now we're going to replace
metal dragged out of the ground uh which
happened to be formed in the collision
of neutron stars a couple of hundred
million years ago billion years ago um
with a digital platform. I understand
why people are skeptical. I I just look
at it as a big company and if you want
to bet on one of the big mega caps well
maybe there's 10 12 15 of them. This is
another one.
>> Yeah. But so from my valueoriented
perspective, that comparison to gold,
right? Functional equivalence, if not
functional superiority, I would say,
right, for Bitcoin, if you map the the
market cap of gold right now to Bitcoin,
Bitcoin would trade at $1.7 million a
coin if everyone felt that way. They
don't obviously, but I think over a long
period of time, they'll get there.
>> So, so let's talk about what's going on
in the current environment. Uh if you
look at today's markets, where do you
see things that are very much mispriced?
Either by asset class, sector,
geography, factor, whatever. What what's
out there that's not fully priced or
what's out there that's overpriced?
>> Yeah, I think aspects of the current
environment remind us of 1999, right?
So, you've had a narrative-driven
performance led by AI. uh you have a
very narrow market for the most part
with mag seven leading huge returns to
momentum the momentum factor last year
um but then if you look at the actual
macroeconomic backdrop you're seeing
deregulation you are seeing um weaker
dollar
um and you're seeing economic
acceleration potentially in the US and
so when you think about all those things
combined and you look at what happened
between call it 1999 2000 all the way
until 06 07
you had the market go effectively
nowhere for seven years I mean it went
down and bounced around right because I
think valuation heading into that period
was very high but what did really well
during that period actually small midcap
value
>> um and if you look at the relative
valuation discrepancies today between
smidval
>> and large growth they're right at the
same sort of extremes that occurred in
1999 9. And so you have same valuation
extremes, you have uh compelling
valuations in a lot of the small cap
midcap value space and you have uh
economic acceleration uh backdrop. So
that means that a lot of more cyclally
oriented things um valueoriented names
that are you know care more about what's
going on in the economy. there's a much
lower hurdle rate for those guys to
exceed the expectations embedded in the
valuations, right, over the next five to
seven years than there are in the
massive AI space. So, so let's talk a
little bit about small and midcap value.
Last year, we only saw two, that's 2025,
we only saw two of the seven MAG7
outperform the S&P 500, which tends to
suggest, hey, maybe this is broadening
out. We're going to see more midcaps and
more small caps. Um the value skeptics
are going to say, "Hey, we've had so
many false starts in value. It's been 15
years of growth winning." How do you
respond to that?
>> Yeah, I think that those snapbacks can
be violent, right? We actually had a one
of our research providers recently calls
midcap value a quoteunquote inferior
asset class. I mean, that sounds like
capitulation to me. Um there's a lot of
underloved stuff out there that's really
interesting. So energy sectors energy is
interesting to me right now. You know if
you look at its weight in the market
it's 3 or 4%.
>> But if you look at its free cash flow
contribution over the next year to the
market it's going to be 10 to 12% most
likely.
>> What's that historic relationship look
like?
>> Uh I don't know if it's that large to be
honest that gap. Um and so you know
energy is underloved. It's
underperformed for so long. It's not the
best u industry from a capital
allocation alignment perspective, but
it's gotten a lot better over the past
few years. And I think you could see
those types of stocks do really well.
You know, sadly, I do think it's a
really cheap call option on global
strife
>> right now. energy prices, you know,
they're pretty bouncing pretty close to
the marginal cost of production,
>> which is shocking when you think about
Russia and Ukraine and Gaza and Israel
and what's going on in Venezuela and who
knows what's going to happen by the time
this comes out, we can own Greenland.
Um, so given given all of that, um, what
does it what does it mean to see despite
all this ge geopolitical turmoil, energy
prices are almost reasonable?
>> Yeah, they are. They've started to turn
up and energyy's done well over the past
few weeks. They could continue to do
really well. So that's why we're
overweight energy.
>> What other sectors do you like?
>> Um, you know, financials, we're still
overweight. I think you're going to
continue to see curves steepening.
Um and that should be a decent earnings
growth in in those. I think utilities
are finally attractively valued again at
you know 10 to 13 times earnings in a
lot of cases with very clear uh growth
pathways and I'd say little risk you
know we don't have enough energy in the
country and utilities are pretty
attractive here
>> especially as AI and data centers
continue to come online. um you take
very concentrated position at least
compared to traditional uh value
managers. How do you what's the
framework for thinking about this? How
do you position size these? Um is this
just strictly a function of hey we're
not closet indexers. We have a high
active share and when we have high
conviction we really we go all in to
follow the poker analogy.
>> Yeah, that's a good way of putting it. I
mean if you consider that mo most stocks
underperform the index for their
lifetime in it um it's an interesting
exercise to come at it from the entire
other side and just say okay what are
the 10 to 15 names that you think have
the highest probability of actually
outperforming instead of effectively
what most active managers do is they
have these risk constraints and they can
only overweight certain sectors a little
bit or so you know the the closer you uh
are to the benchmark, the more likely
you are to underperform it, right?
Because you're just layering higher fees
on something that looks more like the
benchmark. So, you know, we're very
comfortable taking bets entirely outside
of the index with the obvious uh caveat
that there are going to be periods when
we're going to underperform uh
meaningfully just because we're taking
entirely different risks and there'll be
some periods where we outperform by a
lot. So I think that's really the only
way to do it
>> is to is to not be a a closet indexer
essentially.
>> Yeah. And and you have to match the
investment process to your IP. So you
know for us thinking that the edge is on
the 37th page of the Excel spreadsheet
is just not realistic, right? Or if
you're Fidelity and you got a guy that's
been following a certain industry for a
long period of time and really
understands the nuances of every single
company and what could change, you know,
that might make sense. But it just
depends on what you're trying to do and
you have to match up those two things.
>> So, so we've been kind of dancing around
AI throughout this conversation. So, let
let's talk about that a little bit. Are
you thinking of AI as its own investment
entity? Are you thinking of it as
disrupting traditional business models?
Are you thinking of other businesses,
forget the mag 7, the the mag 493, as
being the beneficiaries of AI to be more
productive, efficient, profitable? H how
are you thinking about AI as an
investor?
>> I think it's all of those things. Um,
yeah, it's it's all those things. I use
it all day, every day.
>> How do you that that was really my next
question. How do you use AI throughout
the day for your process both for
selecting investments and just managing
a large investment firm?
>> Well, it's an enormous timesaver and
it's not necessarily always a timesaver
on the investment front, although it
often is. Um, it can just be a timesaver
personally. Like if you have an
interpersonal issue that is weighing on
you, sometimes you just throw it into AI
and you get a better answer than you
could have gotten from asking your, you
know, three closest friends and move on.
So if you're thinking in units of time,
it's a huge timesaver for me personally.
I think a lot of life is about asking
the right questions and you got a pretty
good set of answers there or method for
answering questions. You pointed out
earlier it can be wrong often and you
have to consider that. But it's got a
lot of good perspectives in there that
can bring to bear on a lot of different
things. So
>> what what tools do you use? What what's
your favorite AI? At the moment, we we
have chat GPT and Gemini going Gem for
business, both for business, and then
we're also adding uh Claude here soon.
>> I just I just put Claude on a couple of
desktops and and a laptop. And the
coding side of it is really fascinating.
Um, and I I can see why people are
concerned that this could replace
certain at least menial kind of work,
grinding work, like, oh, it does this so
much faster and better than I could ever
grind down on my own. Um, yeah, Claude's
kind, especially Claude Pro, it's really
kind of impressive. And the question is,
is 200 a month a lot? Is that not a lot?
Is that a fair price? I I think it it
sounds like a lot of money compared to
what is perplexity 20 bucks a month.
It's that seems like free practically
for that much power. So you're using it
everywhere.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh what are you hearing from your peers?
Is this the sort of thing that everybody
has gone all in on? Is the fear, hey, if
we don't do this, our competitors are,
so we better step up. Um, I don't know
if it's fear just as much as ability to
cover so much more ground in the same
amount of time or less. Um,
you know, it's just a super powerful
technology and we use it a lot.
>> Huh. Really, really interesting. So,
we're talking about the current
environment. AI is obviously a gamecher,
but we've gone through a few decades of
major regime changes. We had the era of
monetary policy and then starting in
2020, we've had the era of uh fiscal
policy. When you're when you're looking
at central banks and the government,
higher for longer, zero interest rates,
all all these different things, how do
these geopolitical variables affect how
you think about putting capital to work,
how you think about risk?
Well, I think one really big picture
change uh sort of going back over the
past decade to today is coming out of
the financial crisis um capital
effectively had no cost. I mean you saw
the insane amount of money money
printing that occurred but that's
because that was to offset a huge hole
in capex that had gone into housing that
wasn't necessarily needed right and we
had to work that out from a demand
supply demand perspective and we've now
done that. But if you go back and read
what the Fed said, uh there was a study
that came out of I think the San
Francisco Fed um where they used
computers to look at the language that
was used in meetings, right, about how
to set rates.
>> And what they found was that the 2% uh
inflation number, that's kind of the
bogey, supposed to be a quote unquote
symmetrical goal. It wasn't symmetrical
at all the way they were setting rates
for the between 2010 roughly and call it
2020 or so. And so that has an enormous
implication I think for the way all
kinds of different assets perform. And I
think that's why massive growth had the
run it did over the past decade. Right.
Because when capital has no cost, you're
willing to look out a huge distance.
>> Embrace more risk because what are you
what are you going to get? One and a
half 2%. It doesn't make sense
otherwise.
>> Exactly. And so that's why huge growth
had the run it did because capital had
no opportunity cost. And now if you look
at where we are with mortgages at 6% and
capital actually has a cost again. um it
has major implications for the kinds of
assets that are likely to do well in the
future and it comes back to the whole
theme we talked about earlier around
smidval cap more capital intensive
things potentially having a better
decade now that capital has a cost again
>> let me let me share a favorite factoid
with you um former Fed vice chair Roger
Ferguson wrote a white paper on the uh
origination of the 2% target
>> and he traced it back to some random
television interview in the 1980s in New
Zealand where someone threw out 2% and
that was it. It just magically stuck.
And you could find that you can find
that paper online. It's pretty
hilarious. It it's just such a random
number that doesn't like it's not
there's no underlying um thesis for why
it's two and not three or one. Yeah,
>> it's just it just seems like yeah, that
sounds about right.
>> Well, I think it's got to actually be
higher than that if you think about it
because I mean
>> certainly in an era of fiscal rather
than monetary stimulus, right? You're
going to just inherently have higher
prices,
>> right? Well, I mean, if you think about
the fact that most consumers
overwhelming saving vehicle is their
home. Okay. What's the blended rate on
mortgages right now out there? That's
just in the system.
>> Yeah. Well, half half the individually
owned homes there are no mortgages and
the remaining half it's a crazy set of
numbers of two and a half three and a
half four just everybody was smart
locked in a fixed rate before the
pandemic.
>> Well, so if house prices in the
aggregate don't appreciate by more than
that interest rate, right? People are
going broke in their primary savings
vehicle. So housing actually does need
to increase in value over a long period
of time or people slowly go broke.
makes a lot of sense.
>> Yeah. So, I think that 2% is I know it
was thrown out there, but I think it
actually has to be higher over the long
term to kind of make the math work for
most people.
>> I I couldn't agree more. All right. I
only have you for a limited amount of
time. Let's jump to our favorite
questions, some of which I know the
answers to. Uh, starting with who were
your mentors who helped shape your
career?
>> Wow. Um, so Mr. Keiny was my dad's
original business partner.
>> Uhhuh.
>> He's a fascinating human. Um, worked
until the day he died, I think 92.
>> Wow.
>> An incredibly nice human being. I don't
think ever said a bad word about anyone.
One of the things that was so
interesting to me about Mr. Keaney is he
didn't start his career at Leg.
>> Wow.
>> So, you know, a lot of people, young
people think, oh, here I am and locked
in this career. No, there's always time
to switch. And then he he hopped over at
50 to start this role where he had a a
prolific career and influenced a lot of
people and did that for 40 something
years.
>> Wow.
>> So he was a very smart guy, generous to
a fault. Um one of my favorite stories
about him and him him and my dad were
heading out for lunch one day downtown
Baltimore and you know some a homeless
person comes up and says starts with the
story you know I haven't eaten in this
many days and blah blah blah and Mr.
bikinis sits there listening to it. He
gets out his wallet. He gives her, you
know, I think it was like a $50 bill,
certainly inflation adjusted. He says,
"Oh, ma'am, here just just uh go get
yourself a some hot soup. Take care of
yourself." And she looks at it, she
looks back at him, she looks at it, she
goes, "The hell was soup. I'm going to
get me some whiskey."
But uh yeah, so he was incredibly
generous human being. Contributed a lot
to uh animal welfare stuff. I'm a big
believer in animal um welfare causes. Um
so he was an influence on me. Um I can
also think of a handful of times just
from business school that uh not
necessarily an individual mentor but
just oneliners from business school that
I remember over the years. So that line
I gave you earlier about Ken French and
how long it takes for a manager to prove
whether or not his work is statistically
valuable or not. Um the other oneliner
he told us is never pay a load for a
mutual fund. He said if there's one
thing you take away from my class it's
never pay a load on an investment fund.
And that's certainly still true today.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Let's talk about
books. What are some of your favorites?
What are you reading right now?
>> Yeah. Uh right now I'm reading a book
called The Mattering Instinct.
>> Mhm.
>> By I think it's Rebecca Goldstein, but
it's a fascinating book uh on
>> the mattering
>> the mattering instinct. And it's about
um people's desire to matter and what
that means.
>> Uhhuh.
>> So there's a lot of psychology in it.
There's a lot of philosophy in it. Uh
the basic premise is that we're all just
trying to overcome entropy so that the
tendency for disorder and systems to
increase and we're all going to die
eventually. And
>> I was going to say it's a losing battle
but while we're here
>> exactly let's do something interesting.
Right. So that's what I'm reading now.
Um I just read prior to this uh let them
the Mel Robbins book.
>> So it's one of I think it's the best
selling book
>> last year. Right. So, I could sum that
one up pretty succinctly and it's uh
focus on what you can control and don't
let anything else get to you.
>> Sounds like good advice.
>> It's good advice. And I mentioned that
to my dad because he sees me reading it
and he's like, "Haven't haven't you ever
read Marcus Aurelius's meditations?"
This is this is not a new idea.
>> Stoicism created the idea of controlling
what's within your control 3,000 2,000
years ago.
>> Exactly. And I have read that and that's
a phenomenal book as well. It's just
good to have more modern stories that
you can relate to.
>> Uh, what's keeping you entertained these
days? What are you streaming? Either
podcasts or or, you know, Netflix or
whatever.
>> That's one of my things I don't really
do
>> is Netflix. No.
>> No. I'll watch competitive events. I'll
watch sports. I'll watch, you know, an
occasional standup comedy show, but I
don't watch the series.
>> Did you see the Australian Open this
year?
>> I did. I watched some of that. It was
pretty awesome.
>> I I have the finals DVR. I haven't I
haven't watched it yet, but uh I know
you're a tennis guy. Y
>> um it's it's rare to find someone who
can take Djokovic and uh put him back on
his heels.
>> Yeah. Well, the Djokovic center match
was match was pretty awesome.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I I save these. I watched
him like months later when I get around
to it.
>> Yeah. I do I do golf, so that's that's
something I've just started taking. I'm
terrible, you know. I'm an 18 handicap.
High variance 18 though, so I can have
some pretty good days. Um, but it's
interesting because there's there's a
similarity to investing in golf, which
is golf, you get better at golf by
narrowing your misses.
>> And I think that's also true with
investing. If you start narrowing the
misses, it's a way to get better.
>> Charlie Ellis made the same argument
with tennis. Most tennis players lose
because they make all these unforced
errors. Other than the pros,
most of us would be better off being
less bad rather than trying to be more
good. If that makes any sense.
>> Absolutely. You can shave a lot of
strokes doing that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um, final two questions.
What sort of advice would you give to a
recent college grad interested in a
career in either investing or value or
what have you?
>> Choose your dad. Well,
>> that certainly helps. I love what your
father said to you in terms of create
future optionality by studying and doing
well in school. I've never quite heard
it phrased that way, but that really
sums up why do I have to study algebra?
Because you're just creating
optionality.
>> Investing is about optionality and
creating more options for yourself down
the road. And so anytime you can invest
in yourself and create additional
options is a good thing to do.
>> Yeah. To say the very least. And our
final question, what do you know about
the world of investing, valuations,
portfolio management today uh that would
have been useful when you were first
getting started 20 years ago or so?
>> Well, you know, we were talking about
books earlier. I personally think that
the best book on personal finance is the
psychology of money
>> by Morgan Hel. So, if you haven't read
that, uh, anyone that gets a bank
account should be required to read that
and just internalize the concepts. Um, I
know if you've been in the industry a
while, not all of it's new, but it's a
lot of it's a really good reminder on
how you should behave uh to create
wealth over the long term for yourself.
>> Absolutely. Bill, thank you for coming
in and for being so generous with your
time. We have been speaking with Bill
Miller, the fourth. He is the chief
investment officer and portfolio manager
at Miller Value Fund. If you enjoy this
conversation, well, check out any of the
600 we've done over the past 12 years.
You can find those wherever you find
your favorite podcasts, iTunes, Spotify,
Bloomberg, YouTube. Uh, I would be
remiss if I didn't thank the crack team
that helps put these conversations
together each week. Alexis Noriega is my
video producer. Sean Russo is my
researcher. Anna Luke is my producer.
I'm Barry Rhoffz. You've been listening
to Masters in Business on Bloomberg
Radio.